WOW:
Dr. Jun Zhuang is a Professor, Director of Graduate Studies, and Director of the Decision, Risk & Data Laboratory, Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS) at the University at Buffalo (UB). Dr. Zhuang has a Ph.D. in Industrial Engineering in 2008 from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Dr. Zhuang's long-term research goal is to integrate operations research, big data analytics, game theory, and decision analysis to improve mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery for natural and man-made disasters. Other areas of interest include applications to health care, sports, transportation, supply chain management, sustainability, and architecture. Dr. Zhuang has been a principal investigator of over 30 research grants funded by the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF), by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), by the U.S. Department of Energy, by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research (AFOSR), and by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA).

Dr. Zhuang received the 2019 Chauncey Starr Distinguished Young Risk Analyst Award from the Society for Risk Analysis. Dr. Zhuang is a recipient of the UB's 2019 Exceptional Scholar Award - Sustained Achievement, the 2018 SEAS Senior Researcher of the Year Award, and the 2018-2020 Buffalo Blue Sky Gold Coin Award. Dr. Zhuang is a recipient of the 2017 Koopman Prize from the INFORMS' Military Applications Society and the 2014 Military Operations Research Journal Award. Dr. Zhuang is a recipient of the 2013 UB's Exceptional Scholar--Young Investigator Award. Dr. Zhuang is also a fellow of the 2011 U.S. Air Force Summer Faculty Fellowship Program, sponsored by the AFOSR, and a fellow of the 2009-2010 Next Generation of Hazards and Disasters Researchers Program, sponsored by the NSF.

Dr. Zhuang has published 100+ peer-reviewed journal articles in Operations Research, IISE Transactions, Risk Analysis, Decision Analysis, and European Journal of Operational Research, among others. His research and educational activities have been highlighted in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, Spark CBC Radio, Metro, The Washington Post, USA Today, Stanford GSB News, NSF Discovery, Science Daily, Industrial Engineer, The Council on Undergraduate Research Quarterly, and The Pre-Engineering Times, among others. He is on the Editorial boards of both Risk Analysis and Decision Analysis, was the co-Editor of Decision Analysis Today, and has reviewed proposals for NSF/ASEE/DOD/NASA/European Research Council/Japan Science and Technology Agency/The U.S.-Israel Binational Science Foundation/Ministry of Science and Technology of Israel/Foundation for Polish Science/Dutch National Science Foundation/National Science Centre-Poland, book chapters for Springer, and has reviewed articles for 100+ academic journals and conferences for 400+ times. Dr. Zhuang’s professional and community service activities have been recognized by the 2019 40 Under 40 Award from Buffalo Business First, the 2018 Volunteer Service Award from INFORMS, the 2017 Best Reviewer Award from Risk Analysis, Society for Risk Analysis, and the 2012 Outstanding Reviewer Award from Journal of Infrastructure Systems, American Society of Civil Engineers.

Dr. Zhuang is dedicated to teaching and mentoring undergraduate and graduate students. Dr. Zhuang's teaching and mentoring efforts have been recognized by the 2020 UB Teaching Innovation Award, the 2019-20 UB Excellence in Graduate Student Mentoring Award, 2019 UB SEAS Best Senior Teacher of the Year Award, 2019 UB Student Engagement's Exemplary Faculty/Staff Mentor Award, 2012 UB President Emeritus and Mrs. Martin Meyerson Award for Distinguished Teaching and Mentoring, and 2008 Graduate Student Mentor Award from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

Dr. Zhuang chaired the Second Conference on Risk Analysis, Decision Analysis, and Security: Risk Analysis in the Digital Era, Buffalo/Niagara Falls, NY July 30-August 2, 2019. Dr. Zhuang co-chaired the International Conference on Risk Analysis, Decision Analysis and Security, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, July 21-23, 2017. Dr. Zhuang also co-chaired the first and second Conference on Validating Models of Adversary Behavior, Buffalo/Niagara Falls, NY, June 23-26, 2013, and August 2-5, 2015, respectively.

Dr. Zhuang has been married to his beautiful wife Jie since 2003 and they have three lovely children: Emily, Ethan, and Elijah. Five of us (2018). Our kitten Mimi (2020) and puppy Yogurt (2020).